v7.0 Changelog (#5677)
mattermost/docs: source/install/self-managed-changelog.md

See the [changelog in progress](https://bit.ly/2nK3cVf) for the upcoming release. See the [Legacy Self-Hosted Mattermost Changelog](legacy-self-hosted-changelog) for details on all Mattermost self-hosted releases prior to v5.37. 

Latest Mattermost Releases:
- [Release v7.0 - Major Release](#release-v7-0-major-release)
- [Release v6.7 - Feature Release](#release-v6-7-feature-release)
- [Release v6.6 - Feature Release](#release-v6-6-feature-release)
- [Release v6.5 - Feature Release](#release-v6-5-feature-release)
- [Release v6.3 - Extended Support Release](#release-v6-3-extended-support-release)

## Release v7.0 - [Major Release](https://docs.mattermost.com/upgrade/release-definitions.html#major-release)

**Release Day: 2022-06-15**

### Important Upgrade Notes

>  - **IMPORTANT:** Session length configuration settings have changed from days to hours. If anything goes awry during a server upgrade, it could result in users not being able to log in. For customers who use environment variables for these config settings, the automatic migration won't work, and new configuration  environment variables must be added for: ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHWEBINHOURS=``, ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHMOBILEINHOURS=``, and ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHSSOINHOURS=``. The values need to be 24x the existing values in days. For example, if ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHWEBINDAYS=30``, they should set ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHWEBINHOURS=720``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **IMPORTANT:** Session length configuration settings have changed from using a unit of _days_ to _hours_. Instances using a config.json file or a database configuration for the following values should be automatically migrated to the new units, but instances using environment variables must make the following changes:
 1. replace `MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHWEBINDAYS` with `MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHWEBINHOURS` (x24 the value).
 2. replace `MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHMOBILEINDAYS` with `MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHMOBILEINHOURS` (x24 the value).
 3. replace `MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHSSOINDAYS` with `MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHSSOINHOURS` (x24 the value).

Reviewer: @cwarnermm @jasonblais Let me know if you think this is clearer and if you have any suggested edits.

Reviewer 2: @mkraft I like the clarity you've introduced with this update. Thank you!

Reviewer 3: Thank you! This sounds great. One clarification - what happens when someone has used environment variables, will it reset to default as mentioned by Jesse above?

Reviewer: Yes, [what Jesse wrote](https://github.com/mattermost/docs/pull/5677#issuecomment-1147803623) is correct. If an instance using environment variables forgets to add the replacement `MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTH*INHOURS` setting(s) the instance will revert to using the default value in either the database or the config.json file.

Reviewer 4: Still not 100% on this. My questions are:

If a customer/admin **has not** set these, then its all "in-product" defaults and there is no action needed. Correct?

Then if they are used:

A. If a customer/admin **has** set these, but does not change them prior to upgrade, then we ignore the custom settings (of days) and just apply the "in-product" hour defaults? Is this the case?

or

B. If a customer/admin **has** set these, but does not change them prior to upgrade, then we translate the custom settings to the new one and x24 (go from days to hours). Is this the case?

 - MySQL self-hosted customers may notice the migration taking longer than usual when having a large number of rows in the ``FileInfo`` table. For MySQL, it takes around 19 seconds for a table of size 700,000 rows. The time required for PostgreSQL is negligible.

>  - When a new configuration setting via **System Console > Experimental > Features > Enable App Bar** is enabled, all channel header icons registered by plugins will be moved to the new App Bar, even if they do not explicitly use the new registry function to render a component there. The setting for Apps Bar defaults to ``false`` for self-hosted deployments.

Reviewer 5: "Apps Bar" or "App Bar", need to decide on the definitive naming throughout this document. cc: @wiersgallak

 - When a new configuration setting via **System Console > Experimental > Features > Enable App Bar** is enabled, all channel header icons registered by plugins will be moved to the new Apps Bar, even if they do not explicitly use the new registry function to render a component there. The setting for Apps Bar defaults to ``false`` for self-hosted deployments.
 - The value of ``ServiceSettings.TrustedProxyIPHeader`` defaults to empty from now on. A previous bug prevented this from happening in certain conditions. Customers are requested to check for these values in their config and set them to nil if necessary. See more details [here](https://docs.mattermost.com/configure/configuration-settings.html#trusted-proxy-ip-header).

**IMPORTANT:** If you upgrade from a release earlier than v6.7, please read the other [Important Upgrade Notes](https://docs.mattermost.com/upgrade/important-upgrade-notes.html).

### Highlights

#### Collapsed Reply Threads (General Availability)

>  - [Collapsed Reply Threads](XXXXXX link to CRT GA blog post) is now generally available. Please reference [this article](link to KB article XXXXXX) for more information and guidance for enabling the feature.

Reviewer 6: We can link to the end user CRT docs instead of the blog post since the blog is not scheduled until later this month

Reviewer 6: KB article link coming from @cwarnermm

Reviewer 2: https://mattermost.zendesk.com/knowledge/articles/6880701948564/en-us?brand_id=327479

#### Playbooks Updates
 - Users can now easily keep processes up-to-date with the inline playbook editor.
 - A new statistics dashboard was added that displays the number of playbooks and run instances within the server alongside other system statistics in the **System Console**.
 - Run triggers and actions now provide more control over where status updates are posted throughout a run.

#### Message Formatting Toolbar
 - The [new formatting toolbar](https://docs.mattermost.com/channels/format-messages.html#use-the-messaging-formatting-toolbar) makes Markdown accessible to everyone with easy to use controls for commonly used message formatting, such as bold, headings, links, and more.

### Improvements

#### User Interface (UI)
 - For toggling the channel information in the right-hand pane, a shortcut CTRL/CMD+ALT+I was added.
 - Added an "Unread Channels" section to the channel switcher and included threads in the results.
 - Users are no longer hidden from search results in the "Add members" modal, even if they are already members of the channel.
 - Applied new designs for the Login screen.
 - Enabled the new onboarding task list for end users.

>  - The legacy **Settings > Advanced Settings > Enable Post Formatting** and **Settings > Advanced Settings > Preview Pre-release Features** settings are now hidden when the Message Formatting Toolbar is enabled.

Reviewer 6: ... settings are now deprecated in favor of the the new formatting toolbar.

 - Romanian language support was downgraded to Beta.
 
#### Performance

>  - Improved the performance of aggregate queries related to Collapsed Reply Threads.

Reviewer 6: Learn more about these server performance optimizations in this article. 

XXXXXX Link to KB article from @cwarnermm ^

Reviewer 2: https://mattermost.zendesk.com/knowledge/articles/6880701948564/en-us?brand_id=327479

 - Fixed an issue with the timing of selector performance metrics.
 - Fixed an issue where the S3 **Test Connection** button deceptively failed unless the user pressed **Save** first.
 - Fixed an issue where Workspace Optimization did not load in the System Console on subpath servers.
 - Fixed an issue where an error was logged when ``SendEmailNotifications`` was not set to ``true``.
   
### config.json
Multiple setting options were added to ``config.json``. Below is a list of the additions and their default values on install. The settings can be modified in ``config.json``, or the System Console when available.

#### Changes to Team Edition and Enterprise Edition:
 - Under ``ServiceSettings`` in ``config.json``:
   - Changed ``SessionLengthWebInDays`` to ``SessionLengthWebInHours``.
   - Changed ``SessionLengthMobileInDays`` to ``SessionLengthMobileInHours``.
   - Changed ``SessionLengthSSOInDays`` to ``SessionLengthSSOInHours``.
   - The value of ``TrustedProxyIPHeader`` defaults to empty from now on. A previous bug prevented this from happening in certain conditions. Customers are requested to check for these values in their config and set them to nil if necessary.

>    - Added ``always-on`` and ``default-on`` settings to **System Console > Experimental Features** for Collapsed Reply Threads. When enabled (default-on), users see Collapsed Reply Threads by default and have the option to disable it in **Settings**. When always on, users are required to use Collapsed Reply Threads and can't disable it.

Reviewer 7: Should this path point to the new location of these settings?  "System Console > Posts" as mentioned above?

 - When a new configuration setting via **System Console > Experimental > Features > Enable App Bar** is enabled, all channel header icons registered by plugins will be moved to the new Apps Bar, even if they do not explicitly use the new registry function to render a component there. The setting for Apps Bar defaults to ``false`` for self-hosted deployments.
 - The value of ``ServiceSettings.TrustedProxyIPHeader`` defaults to empty from now on. A previous bug prevented this from happening in certain conditions. Customers are requested to check for these values in their config and set them to nil if necessary. See more details [here](https://docs.mattermost.com/configure/configuration-settings.html#trusted-proxy-ip-header).

**IMPORTANT:** If you upgrade from a release earlier than v6.7, please read the other [Important Upgrade Notes](https://docs.mattermost.com/upgrade/important-upgrade-notes.html).

### Highlights

#### Collapsed Reply Threads (General Availability)

>  - [Collapsed Reply Threads](https://docs.mattermost.com/channels/organize-conversations.html) is now generally available. Please reference [this article](https://mattermost.zendesk.com/knowledge/articles/6880701948564/en-us?brand_id=327479) for more information and guidance for enabling the feature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - [Collapsed Reply Threads](https://docs.mattermost.com/channels/organize-conversations.html) is now generally available. Please reference [this article](https://support.mattermost.com/hc/en-us/articles/6880701948564) for more information and guidance for enabling the feature.
```

#### Message Formatting Toolbar
 - The [new formatting toolbar](https://docs.mattermost.com/channels/format-messages.html#use-the-messaging-formatting-toolbar) makes Markdown accessible to everyone with easy to use controls for commonly used message formatting, such as bold, headings, links, and more.

### Improvements

#### User Interface (UI)
 - For toggling the channel information in the right-hand pane, a shortcut CTRL/CMD+ALT+I was added.
 - Added an "Unread Channels" section to the channel switcher and included threads in the results.
 - Users are no longer hidden from search results in the "Add members" modal, even if they are already members of the channel.
 - Applied new designs for the Login screen.
 - Enabled the new onboarding task list for end users.
 - The legacy **Settings > Advanced Settings > Enable Post Formatting** and **Settings > Advanced Settings > Preview Pre-release Features** settings are now deprecated in favor of the the new formatting toolbar.
 - Romanian language support was downgraded to Beta.
 
#### Performance

>  - Improved the performance of aggregate queries related to Collapsed Reply Threads. Learn more about these server performance optimizations in [this article](https://mattermost.zendesk.com/knowledge/articles/6880701948564/en-us?brand_id=327479).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Improved the performance of aggregate queries related to Collapsed Reply Threads. Learn more about these server performance optimizations in [this article](https://support.mattermost.com/hc/en-us/articles/6880701948564).
```

See the [changelog in progress](https://bit.ly/2nK3cVf) for the upcoming release. See the [Legacy Self-Hosted Mattermost Changelog](legacy-self-hosted-changelog) for details on all Mattermost self-hosted releases prior to v5.37. 

Latest Mattermost Releases:
- [Release v7.0 - Major Release](#release-v7-0-major-release)
- [Release v6.7 - Feature Release](#release-v6-7-feature-release)
- [Release v6.6 - Feature Release](#release-v6-6-feature-release)
- [Release v6.5 - Feature Release](#release-v6-5-feature-release)
- [Release v6.3 - Extended Support Release](#release-v6-3-extended-support-release)

## Release v7.0 - [Major Release](https://docs.mattermost.com/upgrade/release-definitions.html#major-release)

**Release Day: 2022-06-15**

### Important Upgrade Notes

>  - MySQL self-hosted customers may notice the migration taking longer than usual when having a large number of rows in the ``FileInfo`` table. For MySQL, it takes around 19 seconds for a table of size 0.7M rows. The time required for PostgreSQL is negligible.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 - MySQL self-hosted customers may notice the migration taking longer than usual when having a large number of rows in the ``FileInfo`` table. For MySQL, it takes around 19 seconds for a table of size 700,000 rows. The time required for PostgreSQL is negligible.
```

Reviewer 3: Does the time increase linearly, or at another rate? E.g. will someone with twice that number of rows have twice the upgrade time or more/less?

Author: @agarciamontoro / @agnivade to confirm.

Author: Meant to ping @harshilsharma63 here.

Reviewer 8: This is a common question to which there is no good answer. Theoretically speaking, the time should increase linearly, but there are just so many variables to consider that it's impossible to make any predictions. E.g. for our v6.0 migrations, for a certain customer it took a far longer time for a dataset 5x the size.

Historically, we have just mentioned the observed time and let customers make a knowledgeable decision.

>  - MySQL self-hosted customers may notice the migration taking longer than usual when having a large number of rows in the ``FileInfo`` table. For MySQL, it takes around 19s for a table of size 0.7M rows. For PostgreSQL, it takes around 1.3ms for a table of size 0.7M rows.

Reviewer 9: @agnivade, I had to read this a few times to realize that the migration cost for Postgres is negligible. Should we just condense that so something like:
```suggestion
 - MySQL self-hosted customers may notice the migration taking longer than usual when having a large number of rows in the ``FileInfo`` table. For MySQL, it takes around 19s for a table of size 0.7M rows. The time required for PostgreSQL is negligible.
```

>  - When a new config setting ``EnableAppBar`` is enabled, all channel header icons registered by plugins will be moved to the new App Bar, even if they do not explicitly use the new registry function to render a component there. The setting ``EnableAppBar`` defaults to ``false`` for self-hosted deployments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - When a new configuration setting ``EnableAppBar`` is enabled, all channel header icons registered by plugins will be moved to the new App Bar, even if they do not explicitly use the new registry function to render a component there. The setting ``EnableAppBar`` defaults to ``false`` for self-hosted deployments.
```

>  - All channel header icons registered by plugins were moved to the new App Bar, even if they do not explicitly use the new registry function to render a component there. A new config setting ``EnableAppBar`` enables this functionality. The setting defaults to ``false`` for self-hosted deployments.

Reviewer 9: @itao / @agarciamontoro, this description is a bit blurry to me -- it sounds like they are not moved unless this feature is enabled then? But the release note is written in a way that makes it sound more urgent, vs. adding an option to do this.

>  - When a new configuration setting ``EnableAppBar`` is enabled, all channel header icons registered by plugins will be moved to the new App Bar, even if they do not explicitly use the new registry function to render a component there. The setting ``EnableAppBar`` defaults to ``false`` for self-hosted deployments.

Reviewer 3: Which category is the `EnableAppBar` in, e.g. ``ServiceSettings.EnableAppBar``

Reviewer 3: Looks like it's `ExperimentalSettings.EnableAppBar`

>  - The value of ``ServiceSettings.TrustedProxyIPHeader`` defaults to empty from now on. A previous bug prevented this from happening in certain conditions. Customers are requested to check for these values in their config and set them to nil if necessary.

Reviewer 3: What's the consequence for not setting them to nil? Are these configs referring to the Mattermost config file, or something else like the NGINX proxy config file?

Author: @agnivade to confirm.

>  - **IMPORTANT:** Session length configuration settings have changed from days to hours. If anything goes awry during a server upgrade, it could result in users not being able to log in. For customers who use environment variables for these config settings, the automatic migration won't work, and new configuration  environment variables must be added for: ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHWEBINHOURS=``, ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHMOBILEINHOURS=``, and ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHSSOINHOURS=``. The values need to be 24x the existing values in days. For example, if ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHWEBINDAYS=30``, they should set ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHWEBINHOURS=720``.

Reviewer 3: 1 - If this is important, let's list it first
2 - What does the following sentence mean? If the upgrade process breaks? Or something else?

```
If anything goes awry during a server upgrade, it could result in users not being able to log in.
```

Author: 1. Done
2. @mkraft to confirm

Reviewer: @jasonblais Yes, if users can't login or are logged out too soon. That would be a more straightforward way to write it.

Reviewer: cc @cwarnermm ^

>  - **IMPORTANT:** The **System Console** session lengths configurations settings were changed to use a new hours unit, replacing the days. If anything goes awry during a server upgrade, it could result in users not being able to log in. For customers who use environment variables for those config settings, the automatic migration will not work and they'll need to add new environment variables: ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHWEBINHOURS=``, ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHMOBILEINHOURS=``, and ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHSSOINHOURS=``. The values need to be 24x the existing values in days. For example, if ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHWEBINDAYS=30``, they should set ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHWEBINHOURS=720``.

Author: There is more details here from Martin https://github.com/mattermost/docs/pull/5677#pullrequestreview-993954945.

>  - **IMPORTANT:** The **System Console** session lengths configurations settings were changed to use a new hours unit, replacing the days. If anything goes awry during a server upgrade, it could result in users not being able to log in. For customers who use environment variables for those config settings, the automatic migration will not work and they'll need to add new environment variables: ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHWEBINHOURS=``, ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHMOBILEINHOURS=``, and ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHSSOINHOURS=``. The values need to be 24x the existing values in days. For example, if ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHWEBINDAYS=30``, they should set ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHWEBINHOURS=720``.

Reviewer 9: I think I've caught up now -- when scanning through this the first time, I thought we went from seconds to hours, but it's clear now we're adding granularity here. Sorry for the noise!

**IMPORTANT:** If you upgrade from a release earlier than v6.7, please read the other [Important Upgrade Notes](https://docs.mattermost.com/upgrade/important-upgrade-notes.html).

### Highlights

#### Collapsed Reply Threads (General Availability)
 - [Collapsed Reply Threads](XXXXXX link to CRT GA blog post) is now generally available. Please reference [this article](link to KB article XXXXXX) for more information and guidance for enabling the feature.

#### Calls (Beta)

>  - A built-in voice calling and screen sharing is now available. This is a Channels-specific integration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Native voice calling and screen sharing is now available. This is a Channels-specific integration.
```

#### Apps Bar (Beta)

>  - The channel header is now decluttered to make it more obvious how to access Calls, Playbooks, and Boards when viewing a channel. All channel header icons registered by plugins were moved to the new App Bar. This feature is disabled by default, and it is especially recommended to enable the Apps Bar for servers with Calls enabled as the Apps Bar is the dedicated place for the Calls start/join button.

Reviewer 9: Similar comment as above -- is this on or off then, for most users reading these release notes?

>  - When a new configuration setting ``EnableAppBar`` is enabled, the channel header will be decluttered to make it more obvious how to access Calls, Playbooks, and Boards when viewing a channel. All channel header icons registered by plugins will be moved to the new Apps Bar when the configuration setting is enabled. We recommend enabling the Apps Bar for servers with Calls enabled since the Apps Bar is the dedicated place for the Calls start/join button.

Reviewer 3: Propose starting with the benefit, followed by the technical details. E.g. `Channel header is now decluttered ... when a new setting ....`

Reviewer 3: > We recommend enabling the Apps Bar for servers with Calls enabled since the Apps Bar is the dedicated place for the Calls start/join button.

I thought the Calls start/join button stays in the channel header and doesn't move to the Apps Bar?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 - When a new configuration setting ``ExperimentalSettings .EnableAppBar`` is enabled, the channel header will be decluttered to make it more obvious how to access Calls, Playbooks, and Boards when viewing a channel. All channel header icons registered by plugins will be moved to the new Apps Bar when the configuration setting is enabled. We recommend enabling the Apps Bar for servers with Calls enabled since the Apps Bar is the dedicated place for the Calls start/join button.
```

Author: "I thought the Calls start/join button stays in the channel header and doesn't move to the Apps Bar?" @streamer45 can confirm

Reviewer 10: That's correct. The Apps Bar helps in making space for the dedicated button as any other plugin will go under it instead of filling the channel header.

>  - When a new config setting ``EnableAppBar`` is enabled, the channel header will be decluttered to make it more obvious how to access Calls, Playbooks, and Boards when viewing a channel. All channel header icons registered by plugins will be moved to the new Apps Bar when the config setting is enabled. It is especially recommended to enable the Apps Bar for servers with Calls enabled as the Apps Bar is the dedicated place for the Calls start/join button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - When a new configuration setting ``EnableAppBar`` is enabled, the channel header will be decluttered to make it more obvious how to access Calls, Playbooks, and Boards when viewing a channel. All channel header icons registered by plugins will be moved to the new Apps Bar when the configuration setting is enabled. We recommend enabling the Apps Bar for servers with Calls enabled since the Apps Bar is the dedicated place for the Calls start/join button.
```

#### Updated Server Hardware Requirements

>  - 

Reviewer 3: I think there wasn't anything this release

#### Playbooks Updates
 - Users can now easily keep processes up-to-date with the inline playbook editor.

>  - A new statistics dashboard was added that displays the number of Playbooks and run instances within the server alongside other system statistics in the **System Console**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - A new statistics dashboard was added that displays the number of playbooks and run instances within the server alongside other system statistics in the **System Console**.
```

>  - The run triggers and actions now give more control over where status updates are posted throughout a run.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Run triggers and actions now provide more control over where status updates are posted throughout a run.
```

#### Message Formatting Toolbar

>  - The [new formatting toolbar](https://docs.mattermost.com/channels/format-messages.html#use-the-messaging-formatting-toolbar) makes markdown accessible to everyone with easy to use controls for commonly used message formatting, such as bold, headings, links, and more.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 - The [new formatting toolbar](https://docs.mattermost.com/channels/format-messages.html#use-the-messaging-formatting-toolbar) makes Markdown accessible to everyone with easy to use controls for commonly used message formatting, such as bold, headings, links, and more.
```

### Improvements

#### User Interface (UI)
 - For toggling the channel information in the right-hand pane, a shortcut CTRL/CMD+ALT+I was added.

>  - Added an "Unread Channels" section to the channel switcher and included "Threads" in the results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Added an "Unread Channels" section to the channel switcher and included threads in the results.
```

 - To keep users in Mattermost when opening documentation links from the **System Console > Plugin** settings page, all the links now open in another tab.
 - Users are no longer hidden from search results in the "Add members" modal, even if they are already members of the channel.
 - Applied new designs for the Login screen:

>      - Default login

Reviewer 3: Not entirely sure what this list refers to?

     - OAuth options
     - Custom branding
     - MFA token
     - Default signup
     - OAuth options are available
     - Custom branding is configured
     - Email verification is enabled
 - Changed **Actions** post menu hover text to **Message Actions**.
 - Enabled the new onboarding task list for end users.

>  - The legacy ``Enable post formatting`` setting is now hidden when the Message Formatting Toolbar is enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - The legacy ``Enable post formatting`` user setting is now hidden when the Message Formatting Toolbar is enabled.
```

>  - Updated Apps Framework to version 1.1.0 to add improved logging.

Reviewer 3: There's a few improvements that might fit under an Integrations section

- To keep users in Mattermost when opening documentation links from the **System Console > Plugin** settings page, all the links now open in another tab.
- Changed **Actions** post menu hover text to **Message Actions**.
- Updated Apps Framework to version 1.1.0 to add improved logging.

 
#### Performance
 - Improved the performance of aggregate queries related to Collapsed Reply Threads.

#### Administration
 - Timestamps are now enabled in the default audit configuration.
 
#### Enterprise Subscription
 - Upgraded the minor version of the ElasticSearch development Docker image.
 - The Support Packet now contains two additional fields in the ``support_packet.yaml`` file: Active users and License-supported users.

### Bug Fixes
 - Fixed an issue with ADA Accessibility where screen readers did not TAB to or read "This channel has guests" in the channel header bar.

>  - Fixed an issue where the at-mention autosuggest of users was no longer grouped by channel membership status.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Fixed an issue where the @mention autosuggest of users was no longer grouped by channel membership status.
```

 - Fixed an issue where the New Messages toast was not fully tappable in the mobile web view.
 - Fixed an issue where the shortcut modal for channel info showed ``ALT`` instead of ``SHIFT`` for Mac.
 - Fixed an issue where the **Help > Report a Problem** link was not hidden when a URL was not set for **System Console > Customization > Report a Problem**.
 - Fixed an issue with the timing of selector performance metrics.
 - Fixed an issue where the S3 **Test Connection** button deceptively failed unless the user pressed **Save** first.

>  - Fixed an issue where Workspace Optimization did not load on subpath servers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Fixed an issue where Workspace Optimization did not load in the System Console on subpath servers.
```

>  - Fixed an issue where an error was logged when ``SendEmailNotifications`` was not true.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Fixed an issue where an error was logged when ``SendEmailNotifications`` was not set to ``true``.
```

>  - Fixed an issue in X-Forwarded-For header parsing when no whitespaces between values are provided.

Reviewer 2: How would this fix be observed in the product by a user?

   
### config.json
Multiple setting options were added to ``config.json``. Below is a list of the additions and their default values on install. The settings can be modified in ``config.json``, or the System Console when available.

#### Changes to Team Edition and Enterprise Edition:
 - Under ``ServiceSettings`` in ``config.json``:
   - Changed ``SessionLengthWebInDays`` to ``SessionLengthWebInHours``.
   - Changed ``SessionLengthMobileInDays`` to ``SessionLengthMobileInHours``.
   - Changed ``SessionLengthSSOInDays`` to ``SessionLengthSSOInHours``.
   - The value of ``TrustedProxyIPHeader`` defaults to empty from now on. A previous bug prevented this from happening in certain conditions. Customers are requested to check for these values in their config and set them to nil if necessary.

>    - Added ``always-on`` and ``default-on`` settings to **System Console > Experimental Features** for Collapsed Reply Threads. When enabled (default-on), users see Collapsed Reply Threads by default and have the option to disable it in **Settings**. When always on, users are required to use Collapsed Reply Threads and can't disable it.

Reviewer 2: The Collapsed Reply Threads configuration option has also moved in the System Console from Experimental to Site Configuration > Posts. @esethna - please confirm.

>    - The default for ``CollapsedThreads`` has been changed to ``always_on``. This does not affect existing configurations where this value is already set to some other value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - The default for ``CollapsedThreads`` has been changed to ``always_on``. This change impacts new Mattermost deployments, and doesn't affect existing configurations where this value is already set to some other value.
```

See the [changelog in progress](https://bit.ly/2nK3cVf) for the upcoming release. See the [Legacy Self-Hosted Mattermost Changelog](legacy-self-hosted-changelog) for details on all Mattermost self-hosted releases prior to v5.37. 

Latest Mattermost Releases:
- [Release v7.0 - Major Release](#release-v7-0-major-release)
- [Release v6.7 - Feature Release](#release-v6-7-feature-release)
- [Release v6.6 - Feature Release](#release-v6-6-feature-release)
- [Release v6.5 - Feature Release](#release-v6-5-feature-release)
- [Release v6.3 - Extended Support Release](#release-v6-3-extended-support-release)

## Release v7.0 - [Major Release](https://docs.mattermost.com/upgrade/release-definitions.html#major-release)

**Release Day: 2022-06-15**

### Important Upgrade Notes
 - MySQL self-hosted customers may notice the migration taking longer than usual when having a large number of rows in the ``FileInfo`` table. For MySQL, it takes around 19s for a table of size 0.7M rows. For PostgreSQL, it takes around 1.3ms for a table of size 0.7M rows.
 - CRT GA upgrade notes?

>  - All channel header icons registered by plugins were moved to the new App Bar, even if they do not explicitly use the new registry function to render a component there.

Reviewer 11: We have added an `Enable App Bar` config setting that enables this functionality. The setting defaults to `false` for self-managed deployments.

 - Boards: manual refresh on license change
 - The value of ``ServiceSettings.TrustedProxyIPHeader`` defaults to empty from now on. A previous bug prevented this from happening in certain conditions. Customers are requested to check for these values in their config and set them to nil if necessary.

>  - The **System Console** session lengths configurations settings were changed to use a new hours unit, replacing the days. If anything goes awry during a server upgrade, it could result in users not being able to log in. For customer who use environment variables for those config settings, the automatic migration will not work and they'll need to add new environment variables: ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHWEBINHOURS=``, ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHMOBILEINHOURS=``, and ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHSSOINHOURS=``. The values need to be 24x the existing values in days. For example, if ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHWEBINDAYS=30``, they should set ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHWEBINHOURS=720``.

Reviewer 6: @mkraft @laneycs @wiersgallak I want to flag this note, it seems concerning. Session lengths are a significant and consistent source of negative NPS feedback. I'm wondering:

1. What's the chance users will be logged out or unable to log-in after this change?
2. What portion of customers are using environment variables and will manually have to increase session lengths 24x? If they don't do it (which I think is unfortunately very likely), a 24x lower session length is going to cause a lot of users serious pain and frustrations due to frequent logouts (many of whom will likely have trouble logging back in)

Are there other ways we can implement it without the potential for breaking changes?

Reviewer: @esethna The CS and support teams (cc @svelle @sadohert) are aware of this change and are planning to communicate it as well. I don't think it's unreasonable what we're expecting: customers read the release notes and take required action. I agree that likely some administrator of an instance using environment variables for session lengths may miss the release note and get logged out at a shorter interval (ex. every 1h15m if their sessions were set to 30 days), but I'm OK with attempting this strategy, gathering feedback, and iterating on it to come up with a more intricate future strategy if necessary.

**IMPORTANT:** If you upgrade from a release earlier than v6.7, please read the other [Important Upgrade Notes](https://docs.mattermost.com/upgrade/important-upgrade-notes.html).

### Highlights

#### Collapsed Reply Threads (General Availability)

>  - 

Reviewer 6: [Collapsed Reply Threads](XXXXXX link to CRT GA blog post) is now generally available. Please reference [this article](link to KB article XXXXXX) for more information and guidance for enabling the feature.

#### Calls (Beta)
 - A built-in voice calling and screen sharing is now available. This is a Channels-specific integration.

#### App Bar (Beta)
 - The channel header is now decluttered to make it more obvious how to access Calls, Playbooks, and Boards when viewing a channel. All channel header icons registered by plugins were moved to the new App Bar. It is recommended to enable the App Bar for servers with Calls enabled.

#### Updated Server Hardware Requirements
 - 

#### Playbooks Updates
 - Users can now easily keep processes up-to-date with the inline playbook editor.
 - Added a new statistics dashboard that displays the number of Playbooks and run instances within the server alongside other system statistics in the System Console.
 - Run triggers and actions now give more control over where status updates are posted throughout a run.

#### Boards Updates
 - 

> #### Advanced Text Editor

Reviewer 2: I'll be incorporating the new message formatting toolbar functionality on our existing Format messages docs page. I'll provide a specific URL link once this content is drafted. Thanks!

> #### Advanced Text Editor

Reviewer 2: The URL for the new message formatting toolbar documentation will be: https://docs.mattermost.com/channels/format-messages.html#use-the-messaging-formatting-toolbar

   - Added ``always-on`` and ``default-on`` settings to **System Console > Experimental Features** for Collapsed Reply Threads. When enabled (default-on), users see Collapsed Reply Threads by default and have the option to disable it in **Settings**. When always on, users are required to use Collapsed Reply Threads and can't disable it.

#### API Changes
 - Added new API endpoints ``GET /api/v4/teams/:team_id/top/channels`` and ``GET /api/v4/users/me/top/channels`` to get top channels for a team and user.

#### Websocket Event Changes
 - Added a new ``ConnectionId`` field to ``model.WebsocketBroadcast`` that allows broadcasting a message only to a specific connection.

### Go Version
 - v7.0 is built with Go ``v1.18.1``.

### Known Issues
 - Mentions incorrectly shows users as not in a channel [MM-44157](https://mattermost.atlassian.net/browse/MM-44157).
 - Google login fails on the Classic mobile apps.
 - Status may sometimes get stuck as **Away** or **Offline** in High Availability mode with IP Hash turned off.
 - Searching stop words in quotation marks with Elasticsearch enabled returns more than just the searched terms.

>  - The team sidebar on the desktop app does not update when channels have been read on mobile.

Reviewer 6: Ticket link? I'm not aware of this one

See the [changelog in progress](https://bit.ly/2nK3cVf) for the upcoming release. See the [Legacy Self-Hosted Mattermost Changelog](legacy-self-hosted-changelog) for details on all Mattermost self-hosted releases prior to v5.37. 

Latest Mattermost Releases:
- [Release v7.0 - Feature Release](#release-v7-0-feature-release)
- [Release v6.7 - Feature Release](#release-v6-7-feature-release)
- [Release v6.6 - Feature Release](#release-v6-6-feature-release)
- [Release v6.5 - Feature Release](#release-v6-5-feature-release)
- [Release v6.3 - Extended Support Release](#release-v6-3-extended-support-release)

## Release v7.0 - [Feature Release](https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/release-definitions.html#feature-release)

**Release Day: 2022-06-15**

### Important Upgrade Notes

>  - MySQL self-hosted customers may notice the migration taking longer than usual when having a large number of rows in the ``FileInfo`` table.

Author: @harshilsharma63 Has this been tested on the community servers (if needed)?

Reviewer 12: @agnivade what a DB spec? I've never done any of this before.

Reviewer 8: @amyblais - Please add that.

```
The above was performed on a machine of specifications:
CPU - Intel i7 6 cores @ 2.6 GHz
Memory - 16 GB
```

>  - CRT GA upgrade notes?

Reviewer 13: @esethna do we need to warn about enabling CFA for a bit in here? or did we do that earlier and it is not needed anymore?

>  - CRT GA upgrade notes?

Reviewer 6: Yes we should link to the CRT blog post and a new KB article - links coming by end of next week

"[Collapsed Reply Threads](XXXXXX link to CRT GA blog post) is now generally available. Please reference [this article](link to KB article XXXXXX) for more information and guidance for enabling the feature."

 - The **System Console** session lengths configurations settings were changed to use a new hours unit, replacing the days. If anything goes awry during a server upgrade, it could result in users not being able to log in. For customer who use environment variables for those config settings, the automatic migration will not work and they'll need to add new environment variables: ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHWEBINHOURS=``, ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHMOBILEINHOURS=``, and ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHSSOINHOURS=``. The values need to be 24x the existing values in days. For example, if ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHWEBINDAYS=30``, they should set ``MM_SERVICESETTINGS_SESSIONLENGTHWEBINHOURS=720``.

**IMPORTANT:** If you upgrade from a release earlier than v6.7, please read the other [Important Upgrade Notes](https://docs.mattermost.com/upgrade/important-upgrade-notes.html).

### Highlights

#### Collapsed Reply Threads (General Availability)
 - 

> #### Apps Framework (General Availability)

Reviewer 14: This was already released GA in v6.6, so the communications is more of a marketing launch effort.

 - The [Apps Framework](https://developers.mattermost.com/integrate/apps/) allows developers to build integrations with Mattermost that seamlessly work across Mattermost’s desktop and mobile clients. Apps can be developed using any programming language, as opposed to plugins which must be developed in Go.

#### App Bar (Beta)
 - The channel header is now decluttered to make it more obvious how to access Calls, Playbooks, and Boards when viewing a channel. All channel header icons registered by plugins were moved to the new App Bar.

> #### Calls (Beta)

Reviewer 14: Recommending posting this above Apps bar.

 - A built-in voice calling and screen sharing is now available.

#### Updated Server Hardware Requirements
 - 

#### Playbooks Updates

>  - 

Reviewer 9: @stephenvanhemmen, should we draft something for the better playbook editor here?

 - Fixed an issue where Workspace Optimization did not load on subpath servers.
 - Fixed an issue where an error was logged when ``SendEmailNotifications`` was not true.
   
### config.json
Multiple setting options were added to ``config.json``. Below is a list of the additions and their default values on install. The settings can be modified in ``config.json``, or the System Console when available.

#### Changes to Team Edition and Enterprise Edition:
 - Under ``ServiceSettings`` in ``config.json``:
   - Changed ``SessionLengthWebInDays`` to ``SessionLengthWebInHours``.
   - Changed ``SessionLengthMobileInDays`` to ``SessionLengthMobileInHours``.
   - Changed ``SessionLengthSSOInDays`` to ``SessionLengthSSOInHours``.
   - The value of ``TrustedProxyIPHeader`` defaults to empty from now on. A previous bug prevented this from happening in certain conditions. Customers are requested to check for these values in their config and set them to nil if necessary.
   - The default for ``CollapsedThreads`` has been changed to ``always_on``. This does not affect existing configurations where this value is already set to some other value.
 - Under ``ExperimentalSettings`` in ``config.json``:

>    - Added a new config setting ``EnableAppBar`` to enable and disable the new App Bar.

Reviewer 15: @itao, @streamer45: Do we want to add here a recommendation to enable the App Bar for servers with Calls enabled? I know it's already in the setup docs for Calls, but just in case.

Reviewer 10: +1 as long as we explain the correlation between the two (e.g. dedicated space for start/join button)
